I went to see an amazing concert last night, then stayed up for a few hours doing beer-fueled professional writing to catch up and meet a long-overdue deadline so that I could see friends visiting from other continents all week.  The important facts to know about the concert are that I am passingly acquianted with the singer/composer, Holly Herndon, and that she was debuting an AI-powered unpredictable vocal filtering/harmonizing system with 5 live singers.  She performed all this in a monumental (and Monumentalist) architectural marvel from the early 20th century, and it was quite loud and fourth-wall-breaking (the audience was allowed to come and go from the stage and turn the People's Stage into a clurb).

The dream version of this same concert took place in an 18th century Lutheran cathedral (which, OK, secular egalitarianism built by a Hungarian Jew, but in another sense not unlutheran?) and it wasn't a conventional concert but rather a kind of new-music conference.  Holly (sans the ensemble) was the "keynote" performance, and all the "conference speakers" had to DJ a 30 or 60 minute set each in response, organized into panels like an academic conference or unconference.  I was on the hook for one of these DJ sets, but hadn't prepared anything, and as people shuffled in waiting for the keynote to start, I was very nervous about what I would DJ tomorrow during my set.  Dog ate my homework vibes.  (In real life, I haven't seriously DJed, for an audience of music-heads, in over a decade.) 

People stopped shuffling in, and with a start, I realized that the incongruous, beat-up and duct-taped speakers has been brought in just for the performance, and looked familiar.  They were Barrett's speakers from Katabatik in San Francisco. The performance started, a gut-rumbling bassy wall of powernoise that made me a feel a little nauseous at first.  I slouched into my seat and braced myself.  Then I realized Barrett was there, in his speakers, and I relaxed a bit.  I realized that tomorrow, I could probably scrounge up a useful contribution to the conference by building a set around a progression of three echoey, 70s recordings by Selda Bağcan (ending on an acapella, duh) playing them through Holly's software, maybe throwing in some other things with intense vibrato, maybe some Bezuneshe Bekele. I let go of my performance anxiety for a bit and went back into the music with Holly and Barrett.  I woke up crying, but not in a bad or ugly way, just in the way appropriate for such situations.
